Caption: on behalf of beyondblue we really
Caption: appreciate the opportunity to be here
Caption: and I guess fraud you know to rob
Caption: Rebecca - Ashley - Matt - all the
Caption: volunteers it's just phenomenal to be
Caption: able to actually speak to mental health
Caption: and workplace mental health to an
Caption: audience have worked close on four
Caption: hundred five hundred people so thank you
Caption: to the DDD team for putting it on your
Caption: agenda we really appreciate it and I
Caption: really appreciate it being reached out
Caption: in the context of the next half an hour
Caption: forty minutes and I promise I won't keep
Caption: you away from this sort of end of and
Caption: celebrations that that will follow but I
Caption: do want to discuss at a very personal
Caption: level I guess mental health but also
Caption: really give you some practical tips and
Caption: tools to take away to your workplaces to
Caption: help you take action at an individual
Caption: level but also an organizational level
Caption: but some background before we get there
Caption: who here has heard of beyondblue it's
Caption: phenomenal and just to I guess give some
Caption: context to that beyondblue was formed by
Caption: the Honorable Jeff Kennedy in 2000 it
Caption: was really and always has been about
Caption: raising an understanding and awareness
Caption: of depression and anxiety and combating
Caption: the stigma associated with that
Caption: discussion and I think as a society and
Caption: particularly within Australia there is a
Caption: greater awareness but there's still a
Caption: lot to do in this space but it was also
Caption: about guiding people to help our vision
Caption: is to help all Australians achieve their
Caption: best possible mental health and so we do
Caption: provide some phenomenal services our
Caption: 24/7 support line the beyondblue forums
Caption: and a whole range of other services that
Caption: are there to help people manage their
Caption: mental health and manage it when they're
Caption: doing it rough I'd also like to point
Caption: out that you know part of that has I
Caption: guess remit has expanded over the course
Caption: of the last five years where we're
Caption: looking at suicide prevention and
Caption: suicide awareness and the reasons for
Caption: that will become pretty stark shortly
Caption: but also providing even more tools and
Caption: that's where the heads up initiative
Caption: comes into play heads up of free tools
Caption: and resources for organizations to take
Caption: action on workplace mental health I'm
Caption: standing here as an employee of
Caption: beyondblue
Caption: but actually heads up is supported by a
Caption: whole range of wonderful organization
Caption: federal and state government bodies
Caption: industry bodies business groups and also
Caption: a range of supporters from the middle
Caption: health sector great organizations like
Caption: the Black Dog Institute insane
Caption: and so it's kind of with pleasure that
Caption: towards the end of this you'll get some
Caption: resources that I think are really
Caption: valuable in evidence-based and one other
Caption: thing if I might say and Michelle
Caption: mentioned it I stand here today speaking
Caption: to you not as someone that has you know
Caption: as a clinician or a doctor or a
Caption: psychologist or a counselor in fact my
Caption: role before joining beyondblue was with
Caption: the technology company ratify not as a
Caption: software developer I was in their
Caption: marketing team and I think that the
Caption: reason that I'm here today is in part
Caption: because ratified gave me the confidence
Caption: to talked about to talk about my
Caption: experience some eight or nine years
Caption: earlier when I was diagnosed with
Caption: clinical depression ratify was kind of
Caption: challenging because I entered an
Caption: organization where there was pretty an
Caption: open dialogue you know everyone felt and
Caption: could have a discussion about just about
Caption: anything in that business and it was
Caption: direct discussions and our open
Caption: discussions and that was challenging for
Caption: me I come from some pretty conservative
Caption: environments but it was kind of cool too
Caption: and it was that environment that
Caption: actually enabled me I guess to kind of
Caption: go hang on I've got this experience and
Caption: I'm not talking about it could I perhaps
Caption: talk about mental health in the
Caption: workplace more than I do because I was
Caption: watching this sort of vibrant discussion
Caption: occur you know in an in a company and an
Caption: industry that I hadn't been part of so I
Caption: approached the board and the executive
Caption: and said do you mind if I if I enter
Caption: this space and I volunteered for
Caption: beyondblue you'll hear a little bit
Caption: about that personal story today it's not
Caption: that staggering to be honest it's
Caption: actually about life but the net result
Caption: is I'm speaking to you as a peer not as
Caption: a clinician or a doctor and we'll see
Caption: the importance that those trained
Caption: professionals have as well as we move
Caption: through so we're going to talk about
Caption: four topics understanding mental health
Caption: at very much a lay persons view
Caption: certainly whyme workplace
Caption: mental health is important and giving it
Caption: some context around workplaces and you
Caption: know I'll touch on the the nuances of
Caption: the software industry but generally
Caption: workplaces how do we go about creating
Caption: mentally healthy workplaces and again
Caption: finishing with some tools and tips that
Caption: I hope you can take back and and and
Caption: help either yourselves or your
Caption: colleagues so why and we're here and
Caption: let's talk about mental health I think
Caption: the important aspect of talking about
Caption: mental health is that often when we
Caption: think about mental health we think about
Caption: mental ill-health we think about illness
Caption: and that's really important because we
Caption: need to understand that but actually if
Caption: we think about the World Health
Caption: Organization definition for mental
Caption: health it's about contributing life in
Caption: all aspects of life wherever we are
Caption: family work the settings that we we we
Caption: live our life in and it's also about
Caption: being in a position where we can manage
Caption: the normal stresses and strains of life
Caption: and that's mental health I actually find
Caption: it easier rather than going on a
Caption: definition like that to think about it
Caption: in the point of a color continuum if you
Caption: like and here we have you know green on
Caption: the on the left hand side that is really
Caption: around us and individuals when they're
Caption: thriving and they're contributing and
Caption: they're living a life that is full and
Caption: we are healthy but we also need to
Caption: understand that mental health is not a
Caption: static state that runs that range you
Caption: know through amber and orange and into
Caption: red where we have clinical conditions
Caption: and where indeed I ended up with
Caption: clinical depression about eight years
Caption: ago in professional services firm and I
Caption: want to dig into that a little bit
Caption: because it's really important that yes
Caption: we support people with a mental health
Caption: condition but we don't actually treat
Caption: that as the other that it's actually for
Caption: all of us mental health is about all of
Caption: us it's about life and it's about
Caption: keeping the healthy healthy and if we as
Caption: individuals or in our colleagues and our
Caption: peers and our friends see people with
Caption: changes in behavior I'll start to talk
Caption: about some of the signs and symptoms
Caption: then we kind of need to know how to take
Caption: action either ourselves or to help
Caption: others to help them move back into the
Caption: green it's not always going to work
Caption: there's no there's some things that we
Caption: try our best but it's important to
Caption: really understand that when we talk
Caption: about mental health we're talking about
Caption: that continuum we're talking about
Caption: everyone in this room and rather than
Caption: think about it as illness and supporting
Caption: people with the illness which is
Caption: critical think about it as affecting us
Caption: all because it is about being in the
Caption: green the amber and the red if I talked
Caption: a little bit about my experience I I
Caption: guess you know again there's no amazing
Caption: story here essentially what it is is
Caption: that I was in various roles in a
Caption: commercial environment and ended up
Caption: where I I guess I couldn't operate my
Caption: life was impacted for me I'm a an
Caption: anxious person and here's some of the
Caption: signs and symptoms of anxiety now please
Caption: don't think that you know if you've got
Caption: a sign or a symptom that all of a sudden
Caption: you've got some clinical condition no
Caption: it's more about understanding and
Caption: recognizing these signs and symptoms in
Caption: ourselves and others and I would argue
Caption: that for many times throughout my life I
Caption: didn't really get this and if I did I
Caption: certainly didn't think I needed help
Caption: around it but I at heart I'm a pretty
Caption: anxious person I can tell you I didn't
Caption: sleep a lot last night I do a number of
Caption: presentations but I still get really
Caption: nervous about them
Caption: I still think hang on there's a whole
Caption: heap of people here that want to learn
Caption: and have an appetite to learn and what
Caption: the hell am I going to say i overthink
Caption: it I there's there's feelings of dread
Caption: all the time but now I know how to
Caption: better manage that but I guess more
Caption: importantly as we look at those signs
Caption: and symptoms of anxiety you know it was
Caption: depression that I got to and
Caption: understanding the signs and symptoms of
Caption: depression and for me
Caption: thinking back all that time ago I got to
Caption: a stage where I probably hadn't slept
Caption: for three or four months I'd go to bed
Caption: at say ten o'clock I would fall asleep
Caption: on the couch probably for an hour an
Caption: hour hour and a bit after sort of just
Caption: being drained from work I go to bed
Caption: 11:00 wake up at midnight my beautiful
Caption: wife is next to me and I would just toss
Caption: and turn all night so I was lacking
Caption: sleep
Caption: I was really doubting my ability to add
Caption: value anywhere I didn't think I was the
Caption: greatest dad I didn't think I was the
Caption: greatest manager I didn't think I really
Caption: had any sort of value and I really think
Caption: I need to point out here that I'm pretty
Caption: fortunate now I got a beautiful wife of
Caption: 23 years I've got two beautiful
Caption: daughters I've never my family has never
Caption: been beset by tragedy touch some woods
Caption: somewhere and and and I've had and have
Caption: great social networks and I mean that in
Caption: terms of friends and family I strangely
Caption: I'm not on Twitter and I'm not on
Caption: Facebook I am on LinkedIn but social
Caption: networks in the point of view of
Caption: actually you know having some really
Caption: great relationships so there is no
Caption: actual logical reason why someone would
Caption: like me would fall into clinical
Caption: depression but I did because looking
Caption: back I don't really think I understood
Caption: the science and symptoms or a solis that
Caption: didn't take them seriously or or I
Caption: thought that I didn't need to talk about
Caption: it I could work it out myself and I
Caption: couldn't and here's where it becomes
Caption: really important you know I think that
Caption: I'll think about it logically as a
Caption: business person right now I go well if
Caption: we don't know something about software
Caption: we bring in a software consultant or we
Caption: bring in the specialists and we actually
Caption: go you know what help us here I don't
Caption: know what I'm doing if we break our leg
Caption: we definitely go to the doctor we know
Caption: what to do if we're doing a merger and
Caption: acquisition or something we get the the
Caption: professionals in yet if we're doing it
Caption: tough mentally we think somehow we've
Caption: figured out ourselves and I believe that
Caption: we actually need to have the
Caption: conversation firmly believe we need to
Caption: have the conversation around mental
Caption: health both in terms of individuals and
Caption: looking after our own mental health but
Caption: also in looking after and supporting
Caption: others and why do I say this because the
Caption: conversation is essentially what
Caption: eventually helped me even though I kept
Caption: the mask on for god knows how many years
Caption: eventually it broke and I broke
Caption: eventually you know I'd be managing
Caption: teams in organizations and what would
Caption: happen is I'd go to the toilet and cry
Caption: while I'm making decisions for the
Caption: company that were you know generally
Caption: probably pretty good still probably I
Caption: was affected but I'd be a mess people
Caption: are coming to me as a leader and I'm
Caption: kind of going yep I can I can do this
Caption: and I would I think I would offer pretty
Caption: wise counsel I think but I wouldn't see
Caption: me go into the toilet and just basically
Caption: break down or go home and be a mess and
Caption: not be able to contribute then to my
Caption: home life and and everything else that
Caption: was going on and eventually it was Sarah
Caption: my wife that said mark I can't help you
Caption: no you need to go and get help and
Caption: somehow and she'd said that a lot right
Caption: somehow eventually I went to the doctor
Caption: so having the conversation with my wife
Caption: at at this at the smallest but I
Caption: certainly wasn't Harry in the workplace
Caption: at that time give me the scoop and I
Caption: wasn't telling my friends but it enabled
Caption: me to actually realize that hang on I
Caption: probably should even if it's to humor
Caption: Sarah and I went to the doctor and and I
Caption: think that here's the next part yes we
Caption: need to increase our understanding and
Caption: we need to understand that actually
Caption: mental health is about life and that we
Caption: go up and down through that continuing
Caption: that I was talking about we need to
Caption: better understand those signs and
Caption: symptoms and then feel more confident to
Caption: have the conversations but actually it's
Caption: not coming to people like me with a you
Caption: know a personal experience albeit that's
Caption: good it's actually reaching out to the
Caption: professionals the doctors the resources
Caption: that beyondblue at lifeline counselors
Caption: psychologists for me I went to the
Caption: doctor and I remember it clearly
Caption: dr. advocate and and you know again it's
Caption: it's it seems pretty simple but it was
Caption: hard because I I'm not thinking I'm I'm
Caption: okay yeah
Caption: but I'm not and the doctor said why
Caption: you're here and I said cuz Sarah said I
Caption: should come and he went okay well why
Caption: else here here and I said well she
Caption: thinks I've got you know something going
Caption: on upstairs and he goes well what's on
Caption: your mind and I don't know why safety
Caption: environment I just broke down and I just
Caption: spoke to him for about an hour and 10
Caption: minutes through a complete not a sort of
Caption: mess of tears as I tried to figure out
Caption: what it was I was there to talk about
Caption: I hadn't kept it all bottled up I should
Caption: mention as well that you know I guess in
Caption: in that deepest time for me I again I
Caption: was fortunate because I never really
Caption: considered taking my own life I was more
Caption: considering walking away from the good
Caption: life I had I was I was more considering
Caption: leaving my family leaving my wife
Caption: leaving my kids or leaving the social
Caption: environments that I was in or and I have
Caption: left many jobs historically because I
Caption: hadn't actually thought about and
Caption: understood the way mental health was
Caption: impacting me so I'd kind of run away
Caption: from the problem but that was brilliant
Caption: because somehow somehow the doctor got
Caption: through to me said mark you'll seek your
Caption: ill and when a doctor says you're ill
Caption: something broke through all that the
Caption: irrational thoughts and I went okay
Caption: that's that's fine I get that and that
Caption: was the start I was then able to go and
Caption: see a psychologist and I was able to
Caption: talk things through I somehow felt more
Caption: comfortable talking to you know my wife
Caption: more about it now that I was talked to a
Caption: psychologist and I guess the sort of an
Caption: intake was the right way but the
Caption: rational part of me was kind of coming
Caption: through and I could see that actually I
Caption: had a pretty good life but I still made
Caption: a whole range of changes small things
Caption: over the course of sort of six months
Caption: that got me back into the amber and then
Caption: eventually got me back into into green
Caption: the small things like you know I started
Caption: to do a bit more physical exercise
Caption: started to run a start to go to the gym
Caption: I studied better
Caption: you know and and what was happening with
Caption: the physical exercise for me and
Caption: everyone's different by the way you know
Caption: I'm not saying go do a physical exercise
Caption: and fix mental health no but I am saying
Caption: for me that meant I was tired and I was
Caption: physically tired so actually what would
Caption: happen I'd hit the pillow and I'd go to
Caption: sleep and I'd sleep Wow
Caption: you know when you sleep how good is that
Caption: you know all of a sudden you wake up and
Caption: you got a clearer mind and you're
Caption: actually going to have a greater
Caption: propensity to talk you know and so over
Caption: the course of time by getting support by
Caption: seeking support I was able to move back
Caption: into the amber and back into the green
Caption: and pleasingly I know I still know my
Caption: own triggers and that I believe I
Caption: managed my mental health quite well now
Caption: but when you know I see and get some of
Caption: these signs and symptoms that I talk
Caption: about I know that I need to act
Caption: and that act might be to talk to someone
Caption: I'm like we go back to a psychologist it
Caption: might be actually to you know go to the
Caption: gym and just break it or go for a ride
Caption: or do whatever it might be but rather
Caption: than circle into a mire of my own
Caption: negative thoughts try and break that so
Caption: in telling that normally to be quite
Caption: honest apart from when I was
Caption: volunteering haven't haven't sort of
Caption: spoken about that for a little while but
Caption: Rob sort of asked and and sure a lot
Caption: more all I'm trying to say there is that
Caption: really there's nothing special about
Caption: that story right I mean this is just
Caption: life it's someone that is you know has a
Caption: pretty good life and poor me I was
Caption: managing depression but the net result
Caption: is is that I was able to get myself back
Caption: into a really strong player strong
Caption: enough that when I was if I I wanted to
Caption: actually speak about it in the workplace
Caption: to leaders because we need to do more
Caption: and so that's a sort of baseline
Caption: understanding of mental health
Caption: why is workplace mental health important
Caption: well again I know we've got you know
Caption: celebrations coming up but I just kind
Caption: of want to say that it's important
Caption: because what we have here is a societal
Caption: issue in Australia nearly eight people
Caption: take their lives their own lives every
Caption: day it's about two and a half times it
Caption: right all for every eight and people
Caption: that take their own lives about 30
Caption: people attempt we also know that at any
Caption: given time around 3 million people will
Caption: be managing depression and/or anxiety
Caption: now there's no you know some people will
Caption: take their own lives without exhibiting
Caption: any signs and symptoms of depression
Caption: anxiety or a clinical condition but we
Caption: know there's a risk factor there and so
Caption: that discussion that we've been having
Caption: for a long time around depression and
Caption: anxiety becomes important right we have
Caption: a societal issue businesses and
Caption: organizations operate within society so
Caption: you know what we're part of the solution
Caption: we can help will often think that you
Caption: know workplaces are the stressor and
Caption: they can be you know workplaces are the
Caption: places that give us the anxiety and the
Caption: depression and sometimes they can be and
Caption: we
Caption: to work at it and I'll talk about that
Caption: but sometimes they're a great support
Caption: doing quality work you know being with
Caption: great peers being with quality people
Caption: that really know their stuff and that
Caption: you're contributing and you know your
Caption: role and the design of the work that
Caption: you're doing is powerfully good what
Caption: places that can be good as well but this
Caption: is a societal issue so now let's bring
Caption: it into the workplace I should note that
Caption: a lot of the facts and figures here are
Caption: on reports from PwC instinct and reason
Caption: TNS social research but all this is on
Caption: the beyondblue website and all all all
Caption: the statistics are there for those that
Caption: want to go into the source material but
Caption: let's bring it into a workplace
Caption: environment with the prevalence that
Caption: we've got in society we know that at any
Caption: given time one in five employees may be
Caption: being affected by poor mental health we
Caption: also know there's a substantive cost to
Caption: business around about eleven billion
Caption: dollars in Australia most of that's
Caption: around absenteeism and presenteeism not
Caption: so much compensation claims where you
Caption: might think it is but where are my mind
Caption: goes again you know from my you know
Caption: various management roles and all the
Caption: rest of it is into a couple of figures
Caption: yes there's a return on investment an
Caption: average return on investment of $2 30
Caption: for every dollar invested in effective
Caption: mental health and well-being programs
Caption: interventions if you like but and that's
Caption: that's that's important that what really
Caption: stands out for me is the employee
Caption: engagement and becoming an employer of
Caption: choice and actually attracting people to
Caption: your organization because you're doing
Caption: good stuff you've got a reputation for
Caption: managing the health and safety of
Caption: employees from a mental health
Caption: perspective I don't know an executive
Caption: team that doesn't desire to have greater
Caption: engagement with their team to drive
Caption: greater productivity and to drive
Caption: greater commitment and and and in the
Caption: end affect the bottom line now sometimes
Caption: when we talk about a slide like this
Caption: people go why you're making about money
Caption: it's about saving lives right and it is
Caption: but we also know that businesses and
Caption: workplaces generally run by bottom line
Caption: so whether or not you're actually doing
Caption: it because as Carolina Carolina
Caption: mentioned this morning you know
Caption: you know it's ethically right it's the
Caption: right thing to do to look after our
Caption: people or actually you know what your
Caption: financial director you actually need the
Caption: numbers to back up the investment or
Caption: actually you're in HR or in the
Caption: executive teams and you want greater
Caption: engagement yeah I don't really care what
Caption: drives the action but take action
Caption: because there's a business case around
Caption: it to take action so if we've got that
Caption: understanding of mental health that it's
Caption: about all of us then we've got this
Caption: societal issue and we know that it's a
Caption: business issue we also know that we're
Caption: kind of not there yet
Caption: through various studies we know that
Caption: most employees view a physically safe
Caption: workplace is important and most
Caption: employees kind of think that their
Caption: workplaces are physically safe not
Caption: saying they're but mostly you know
Caption: there's an alignment there even more
Caption: employees value a mentally safe
Caption: workplace but only half the employee
Caption: survey viewed their workplaces is
Caption: mentally safe so we can see the
Caption: disconnect there between physical and
Caption: mental health and the kind of leap that
Caption: we've got to make to kind of go hey you
Caption: know probably I mean I'm I was born in
Caption: 68 so I'm 50 I'm 50 I made it but but
Caption: the net result is back in probably the
Caption: late 60s early 70s physical health and
Caption: safety which is getting off the off off
Caption: the off the ground in terms of systems
Caption: and processes and governance so really
Caption: what we're doing here is making that
Caption: leap to go okay hopefully in how many
Caption: ever years to 5 10 you don't need a Marc
Caption: Leopold or a beyondblue or anyone else
Caption: up here talking about workplace mental
Caption: health because it's about the way we do
Caption: business because we've actually closed
Caption: that gap but I'd also say that you know
Caption: there's absolutely a legit allegis
Caption: illative and regulatory requirement we
Caption: don't have a choice
Caption: by the way the legislation isn't just
Caption: about physical health its to keep our
Caption: people healthy and safe both physically
Caption: and mentally now I'll just say with this
Caption: one that you know what this is critical
Caption: because
Caption: it is about compliance but if you're
Caption: just doing it as an organization to tick
Caption: the compliance box I think you're
Caption: missing an opportunity to have some of
Caption: those richer relationships that we were
Caption: talking about some of that authentic
Caption: leadership that will come through in in
Caption: as I talk on these next slides but I
Caption: hope in that you know brief period now
Caption: you've got this sort of understanding
Caption: where you go yet a business issue and
Caption: whatever is driving you whether it's
Caption: compliance or financials or engagement
Caption: we can move forward so how do we go
Caption: about creating a mentally healthy
Caption: business well if it was easy again I
Caption: wouldn't be here but here's a few ideas
Caption: that come to mind this is actually a
Caption: definition of what a mentally healthy
Caption: workplace might look like from guarding
Caption: mines in the UK why I like this one is
Caption: is that that end having energy left over
Caption: at the end of the day is kind of a nice
Caption: thing because I know that historically
Caption: I've been in so many roles where
Caption: actually for very long periods if not
Caption: just my entire working life I was
Caption: drained I was gone I wasn't actually
Caption: going home energised I was going home to
Caption: recover now again please understand it
Caption: given I come from a business background
Caption: I'm not saying that there's not times
Caption: when we all work on projects and they go
Caption: flat out and I'll certainly know from a
Caption: software deaf perspective and a tech
Caption: industry that that occurs right so it's
Caption: not about the spikes it's just about
Caption: saying well actually understanding are
Caption: we actually creating environments that
Caption: are energizing our people and I kind of
Caption: like the idea behind that even if it's a
Caption: little little bit sort of um you know of
Caption: a broad framework
Caption: more specifically we know some
Caption: attributes of a mentally healthy
Caption: workplace from those that are doing it
Caption: well and it is about fostering that
Caption: positive culture playing to people's
Caption: strengths managing the risks associated
Caption: with with the work that we're doing now
Caption: clearly I don't know a FIFO mining
Caption: environment is going to have very
Caption: different risks to a professional
Caption: services firm is going to have different
Caption: risks to software development in five
Caption: file might be around you know the
Caption: disconnection from friends and family
Caption: and
Caption: away for a long time in professional
Caption: service environments that might be
Caption: around you know continued long hours
Caption: perfectionism all sorts of different
Caption: things that start to sort of sit there
Caption: and go well you know in software
Caption: development it could be anything and
Caption: given the breadth of organizations
Caption: around and and and what I've seen you
Caption: know it could be you're being isolated
Caption: and working alone as you tap away in
Caption: trying to drive some of that development
Caption: it could be that you're embedded in
Caption: teams that are in a toxic environment it
Caption: could be that your workplace is a toxic
Caption: environment it could be embedded in
Caption: teams that are in a great environment
Caption: but it's about understanding the risks
Caption: and helping to mitigate that and I'll
Caption: talk about a little bit more about that
Caption: clearly it's about supporting people
Caption: with a mental health condition and I'll
Caption: talk a little bit about that as well and
Caption: then taking a zero-tolerance approach to
Caption: discrimination again Carolina talked
Caption: about this whole idea around you know
Caption: inclusive workplaces an inclusive web
Caption: and the fact that DDD you know have this
Caption: sort of central pillar of diversity
Caption: inclusion how cool is that right
Caption: diversity of thought people with a
Caption: mental health condition and anywhere on
Caption: that continuum have great stuff to offer
Caption: and we also know that discrimination has
Caption: direct links to anxiety depression and
Caption: worse so zero tolerance to bullying and
Caption: discrimination and some of the critical
Caption: success factors that we think about here
Caption: and none of this should come across as
Caption: rocket science I hope because I think
Caption: it's it's predominantly what we do in
Caption: any good business but what we know again
Caption: we need leadership commitment to mental
Caption: health and I'll talk about that as the
Caption: last point of this slide but we
Caption: absolutely need to in Courage and have
Caption: our employees participate in this
Caption: conversation think about the prevalence
Caption: the TAT stats that I've already quoted
Caption: most of us in this room will have some
Caption: understanding either directly or
Caption: indirectly of managing or helping people
Caption: manage a mental health condition
Caption: somewhere on the continuum and therefore
Caption: there's a latent kind of desire to
Caption: actually help this 500 people in this
Caption: room
Caption: now interested in this topic and
Caption: therefore tap into that and also
Caption: understand that it's an ongoing piece we
Caption: don't treat mental health as another and
Caption: have it as a program or have it as a
Caption: policy we've done the policy and it's
Caption: game over it's an ongoing communication
Caption: with our organizations just like most of
Caption: the things that we operate as business
Caption: as usual whether it be broader work
Caption: health safety practices or whatever it
Caption: might be so those three factors are kind
Caption: of important the leadership commitment
Caption: one is fundamental because it's about
Caption: the time and the allocation of resources
Caption: and it's actually about permission to
Caption: talk and putting in the processes and
Caption: the systems and the supports in place my
Caption: only reservation sometimes with this is
Caption: that if you don't have leadership
Caption: commitment it doesn't mean we do nothing
Caption: because we have roles to play as leaders
Caption: and influencers to actually drive that
Caption: commitment within our organizations so
Caption: what can we do to understand and what
Caption: can people in this room do to sort of
Caption: take a a position of influence both you
Caption: know again we're talking at the
Caption: workplace but this just bleeds outside
Caption: of the workplace right but let's
Caption: understand what we can do and it is
Caption: about increasing our understanding
Caption: because as we increase our understanding
Caption: we reduce that fear of actually taking
Caption: action or having a conversation or
Caption: actually seeking help so you know I
Caption: implore you to use the heads-up
Caption: resources to at a baseline to improve
Caption: your understanding of mental health but
Caption: then it's about using that authentic
Caption: voice you know your own voice the
Caption: presentations that we've got have
Caption: speaker notes you know beyondblue I just
Caption: can't use them because at any given time
Caption: I'm not quite sure what's gonna come out
Caption: I don't think I've done a similar
Caption: presentation I mean the contents there
Caption: but it's about just saying you know what
Caption: if you're going to talk about this talk
Caption: about it in a human way you know as you
Caption: would other aspects of your life and try
Caption: and approach it in that manner I'm not
Caption: saying it's easy right and in fact I had
Caption: a great conversation just earlier about
Caption: how hard this is because of our cultural
Caption: norms to almost hide this stuff
Caption: it's why it's a long-term societal
Caption: change this this isn't about fixing
Caption: something overnight it's about the
Caption: continued conversation but please look
Caption: at those elements and think about what
Caption: you can do as individuals within your
Caption: workplaces to influence and lead
Caption: accordingly and of course the basic
Caption: stuff about also you know recognizing
Caption: the accomplishments both with ourselves
Caption: and our teams we don't have time today
Caption: to go into a full spectrum of you know
Caption: how you might apply this in an
Caption: organizational context on the heads up
Caption: website there are great resources like
Caption: this is a how-to guide and how we might
Caption: apply and start to strategize and plan
Caption: around workplace mental health they're
Caption: free downloads you can get it in digital
Caption: copy there are limited hard copies to
Caption: get as well but the net result is you
Caption: know there's four steps that we can take
Caption: to actually implement our strategies in
Caption: our in our plans and again I hope you're
Caption: looking at this going well there's
Caption: nothing special about that
Caption: that's not relied because it's not it's
Caption: about actually just taking the action to
Caption: put it into structured systems and
Caption: processes and if you don't have that
Caption: leadership support how do we gain it and
Caption: it's about building the business case
Caption: that we touched on earlier and and
Caption: influencing those executives in HR and
Caption: in finance and doing what we need to do
Caption: to actually coalesce that team to go
Caption: this is important mm-hmm how do we
Caption: actually identify the needs a whole
Caption: range of tools and tips about how we
Caption: actually look at what we're doing and I
Caption: would say most organizations are
Caption: probably already doing some stuff in
Caption: this and I'll get to the next slide
Caption: shortly around how we might do it in a
Caption: more integrated manner but it is around
Caption: going well what are we doing are we
Caption: doing anything probably our and and
Caption: starting to go okay and where are the
Caption: gaps what aren't we doing I want to dive
Caption: in to the third point there in terms of
Caption: developing a plan because the work of
Caption: Tony LaMontagne and his team shows that
Caption: really the greatest benefits around
Caption: workplace mental health get to be taken
Caption: when we take an integrated approach and
Caption: that can mean many things to many people
Caption: because an integrated approach to me
Caption: also says things like we'll integrate it
Caption: within your existing work health safety
Caption: programs
Caption: your HR programs or whatever might be so
Caption: integrated in this sense is actually no
Caption: we absolutely need to support people
Caption: with a mental health condition so that
Caption: is a that is a pillar if you like of an
Caption: integrated approach but let's also think
Caption: about promoting the positives of good
Caption: mental health and the positives of good
Caption: work and let's also make sure we're
Caption: putting in protective factors to ensure
Caption: that we're keeping the healthy healthy
Caption: and we're understanding the risks and
Caption: we're mitigating those risks associated
Caption: with that so yeah absolutely let's make
Caption: sure we're supporting people with a
Caption: mental health condition but let's also
Caption: build a holistic view about how we might
Caption: actually go about getting great benefits
Caption: over time now I guess the the danger
Caption: here and to quote an MD of my past you
Caption: know let's not boil the ocean
Caption: I'm overwhelming you a little bit with a
Caption: whole range of information here we go
Caption: what does it mean and there is a desire
Caption: and the large of the organization gets
Caption: the bigger it is is almost they want to
Caption: you know do everything at once and have
Caption: the magnificent long plan and strategy
Caption: but actually you know what that's
Caption: something to evolve to start small and
Caption: iterate you know start with little
Caption: things and then move and see what you
Caption: learn and then progress I think there's
Caption: some you know I'm not a lot a software
Caption: developer by a mile but I think there's
Caption: some lessons to work in how we think
Caption: about that sort of agile approach to how
Caption: we take that into how we would you know
Caption: run our programs around mental health it
Caption: doesn't need to be the solution at the
Caption: end we can actually work towards it and
Caption: so finally and wrapping up pretty
Caption: quickly I just want to let you know
Caption: you're not working from a blank sheet of
Caption: paper there are phenomenal free
Caption: resources that heads up dot org delay
Caption: you for you to draw upon it is not the
Caption: only source of resources as supported by
Caption: the mentally healthy workplace Alliance
Caption: but they are great resources as I
Caption: already mentioned there there's a whole
Caption: range of information around workplaces
Caption: but whether you're a manager whether
Caption: you're an employee whether you're a
Caption: small business and if I can touch on
Caption: that for a minute because I imagine
Caption: there's some small businesses in the
Caption: room whether your own business you're a
Caption: consultant or whatever the case is and
Caption: that is to say that
Caption: some of this is too big you know too too
Caption: much all at once for a small business
Caption: and so there's now new information on
Caption: heads up around how you might approach
Caption: it from a small business perspective and
Caption: really you know a lot that's coming out
Caption: and beyondblue do it does a lot of work
Caption: with stakeholders to try and figure out
Caption: you know how we can better serve our our
Caption: end customers to you know the Australian
Caption: public but small businesses are telling
Caption: us they want it through the channels
Caption: they get so they want to you know if
Caption: they've got a trusted advisor from a
Caption: bookkeeper to an accountant then let's
Caption: let's use that channel you know it's
Caption: about how do we look after ourselves as
Caption: small business owners and I sort of
Caption: equate this not beyondblue term my term
Caption: around you know when you you get the
Caption: safety thing from an airplane and and it
Caption: says look after yourself before you look
Caption: after your kids you know sort of put on
Caption: the mask I think there's a bit of an
Caption: analogy there with small business to
Caption: because you actually need to look after
Caption: yourself because if you fall over as a
Caption: small business owner the impacts are
Caption: greater and so are the greater if you
Caption: remain mentally healthy so just be aware
Caption: that there's a whole heap of great
Caption: resources that are available I've
Caption: highlighted some I've already talked
Caption: about the the guide to workplace mental
Caption: health but I guess a couple of things
Caption: that have come from conversations
Caption: tonight last night and even in the
Caption: audience today which is around making
Caption: sure that we as individuals in whatever
Caption: role we're playing in an organization
Caption: we're looking after our own mental
Caption: health and there's lots of tips and
Caption: tools around that around how we might
Caption: think about iEARN mental health has even
Caption: things around war actually should we
Caption: have the conversation in a workplace I'm
Caption: not advocating that you actually can in
Caption: all because some workplaces just aren't
Caption: ready for it right but in the context of
Caption: it if that's not the case who are we
Caption: speaking to what are you doing to look
Caption: after yourself who are the supports that
Caption: you can go to and if they're not friends
Caption: and family as an initial part is it
Caption: calling the beyondblue line you know the
Caption: 24-hour support service or is it going
Caption: online to the beyondblue forums you
Caption: understand how we can look after
Caption: ourselves and importantly how we support
Caption: others do you have a conversation about
Caption: work if you see that mark leopold is you
Caption: know sadly in in work I think that we
Caption: kind of know each other better and we
Caption: know our family sometimes because we
Caption: work so closely together for such
Caption: get periods of time so what happens if
Caption: you start to start to see some of the
Caption: signs and symptoms and hey Mark you know
Caption: it's not about saying that you look you
Caption: know depressed go take a concrete pill
Caption: or let's go for a drink all that self
Caption: medicate or let's do whatever it's not
Caption: about diagnosing them it's kind of
Caption: recognizing that your colleague or your
Caption: friend or your family member the
Caption: behaviors have changed and hey Mark I've
Caption: noticed you're not going out much
Caption: anymore I've noticed you're not this so
Caption: you know it's not that is there anything
Caption: I can do you know you want to talk about
Caption: anything you know what's interesting
Caption: about that is that after I had my own I
Caption: guess experience with depression I got
Caption: back in I was managing people and some
Caption: of the basic things that I did you know
Caption: I used to say someone come up to me and
Caption: say hey Mark you know like I'm not
Caption: feeling so good night and said hey we're
Caption: a team
Caption: you just go ahead and do what you need
Caption: to do cool don't you worry about it
Caption: don't worry about work we'll we'll work
Caption: it out I then sort of thought about my
Caption: own situation and again everyone's
Caption: different because that is actually kind
Caption: of a viable thing there's nothing wrong
Caption: with what I've said there but then I
Caption: changed and I'm more likely to say yeah
Caption: look sure is there anything you want to
Caption: talk about try and act explore you know
Caption: what was what was there and you know
Caption: what was interesting and again it's
Caption: wrong to make generalizations the blokes
Caption: generally don't talk and so they've been
Caption: arts are okay off we go but then the
Caption: more I asked that question the more
Caption: maybe a day later or a week later
Caption: sometimes months later a mark you know
Caption: asked if there was something I want to
Caption: talk about can we have a chat and that
Caption: small change leads to people actually
Caption: opening up and at that point I'm no
Caption: expert right again I'm not a counselor
Caption: I'm not a psychologist but I've got
Caption: someone that has taken the effort and
Caption: the trust to have a conversation with me
Caption: and what wonderful so now it's about
Caption: opening up the ears and then saying hey
Caption: listen you know have you thought about
Caption: getting help have you seen your GP have
Caption: you spoken to the asipi I looked at that
Caption: and guiding people to that help so look
Caption: there's a whole heap of information
Caption: there around how to support others and I
Caption: want to sort of finish as well in terms
Caption: of saying that there's some great
Caption: resources in online learning stuff where
Caption: you can do sort of
Caption: 20 minute roll plays around how you
Caption: would actually approach someone in the
Caption: workplace how you would have the
Caption: conversation know how you would manage
Caption: risks in the workplace now some of these
Caption: and again what's called SCORM compliance
Caption: so that can be dragged and dropped for
Caption: lack of a better word into your own
Caption: learning management systems and and then
Caption: you've got sort of a measurable and and
Caption: and a way to see who's doing the
Caption: training within your organization's but
Caption: others are just there on the beyondblue
Caption: website and they're there to you so use
Caption: them and that's what I meant about
Caption: workplaces without leadership commitment
Caption: and if that's not the case that's cool
Caption: but you can at least with you and your
Caption: team start the conversation on some
Caption: pretty cool free resources as well and
Caption: so to close I guess I just say look you
Caption: know if you can't think about it in this
Caption: way and aligned with border broader
Caption: workplace initiatives fine there is no
Caption: one right way so don't feel like you're
Caption: actually gonna sit there and go make a
Caption: mistake I think if you're taking action
Caption: an action that's based on you know some
Caption: credible and evidence-based materials
Caption: you're a step ahead
Caption: it says integrate with broader work
Caption: health safety systems do that but
Caption: sometimes you might actually have to
Caption: treat it as a separate project to start
Caption: with just to get your head around it as
Caption: an organization there is no one right
Caption: way it isn't a program we don't do
Caption: something we don't do heads up we don't
Caption: do I think and we push the button and
Caption: mental health is fixed No think about it
Caption: as that process and system that is
Caption: ongoing the way we do business the way
Caption: we run our businesses and I think I'll
Caption: finish in saying you know that what I
Caption: said before that if you can start small
Caption: start small with grow and that might be
Caption: getting a volunteer speaker in and
Caption: talking about it a brown-bag it might be
Caption: actually just letting people know that
Caption: there's resources available wherever it
Caption: is start small and grow from there and I
Caption: think that by taking action you as both
Caption: individuals and organizations in a
Caption: phenomenal industry hopefully start I
Caption: guess support some changes across
Caption: broader society that we really need so
Caption: look I don't know what you expected but
Caption: from the point of view of I know that
Caption: I'm sort of now keeping you away from
Caption: sort of drinks and stuff I do
Caption: wanted to say hey thanks for putting it
Caption: on the agenda thanks for listening for
Caption: 35 or 40 minutes or how long I've
Caption: chatted for and please find out more
Caption: heads up thanks very much
Caption: [Applause]